---
title: "Structural Studies of NaPO3-AlF3 Glasses by High-Resolution Double-Resonance Nuclear Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2018-08-21-NAPF
excerpt: 'This paper provides a spectroscopic reference glass system for many optical research applications.'
date: 2018-08-21
venue: 'Journal of Physical Chemistry C'
paperurl: 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.8b06162'
citation: '<b>H. Bradtmüller</b>, L. Zhang, C.C. de Araujo, H. Eckert, D. Möncke, D. Ehrt, “Structural Studies of NaPO3-AlF3 Glasses by High-Resolution Double-Resonance Nuclear Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy”, Journal of Physical Chemistry C, <b>2018</b>, <i>122</i>, 21579−21588.'
---
The local structure of the model glasses (NaPO3)1-x-(AlF3)x (0 ≤ x ≤ 0.4), prepared by standard melt-cooling, was extensively investigated by high-resolution solid state NMR including advanced double resonance techniques. This glass system offers the opportunity of studying five different heteronuclear distance correlations (Na-F, Na-P, P-F, Al-F, P-Al) by ten distinct double resonance experiments, involving all of the constituent elements present. 27Al MAS-NMR data indicate that aluminum is predominantly six-coordinated. According to 27Al{31P} and 27Al{19F} rotational echo double resonance (REDOR) spectroscopic results, two to three Al-F and three to four Al-O-P linkages occur in these glasses, independent of composition x. 19F MAS-NMR spectra show the presence of terminal P-bound and Al-bound fluorine species. A small amount of fluorine bridging to two aluminum octahedra, which could be assigned based on 19F{27Al} and 19F{31P} REDOR experiments, was also detected. 19F{23Na} REDOR experiments indicate that the Al-bound terminal F atoms interact significantly more strongly with sodium ions than the P-bonded terminal F atoms, which is consistent with local charge considerations. Based on the detailed quantitative dipole-dipole coupling information obtained, a comprehensive structural model for these glasses is presented.

[Download paper here](http://hbrmn.github.io/files/paper4.pdf)

Recommended citation: <b>H. Bradtmüller</b>, L. Zhang, C.C. de Araujo, H. Eckert, D. Möncke, D. Ehrt, “Structural Studies of NaPO3-AlF3 Glasses by High-Resolution Double-Resonance Nuclear Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy”, Journal of Physical Chemistry C, **2018**, *122*, 21579−21588.